OK.
You're right, I need to start recording.
Maybe got a recording off.
Sorry, last time I forgot.
Oh, we already started, OK.
That's awesome.
Thank you.
Yeah. So any issue coming in class?
I guess no issue, OK.
So.
So how long are you recording it?
Or am I recording it?
I just wanna make sure that I will
eventually have the recording to upload.
Both of us are gonna have access to the
recording.
I just started.
Oh, OK.
I'm sorry I can't stop the recording.
OK, that.
And you could start it.
OK.
That's good. That's good.
So then both of us gonna have the
recording.
That's awesome.
Just wanted to make sure I have the
recordings and then I gotta upload.
So that's the first thing Jeff's
presentation.
Another one is one group just reached to
me today and then pointed out there is
one one data in the in the first
assignment that group cannot find and
that's it.
That is just a closed price.
So then I think that that makes sense.
So then.
I just postponed the first homework until
Friday 11:55 PM.
So.
So this so, so then you, well,
whoever ready, submit in.
So then that's totally fine.
You know you you can use close price,
you can use just a close price.
It's really your assumption I'm fine with
that.
The second homework is already online so
that you can start downloading it and and
start working on that.
Yes,
and and also the original thought is I
was thinking that we do have the team so
then we can leverage teams to for the
folks to post the questions and then we
can solve together.
But that team also remind me that maybe
there is a need for office hour, right?
So then let me just share my screen.
Just wanna make sure your availability
and what kind of the best time for the
office hour.
What I can do is 4:30 to 5:30, right?
I can do 2 days of the other four days.
I just wanna make sure that what two days
work for you guys.
Do you think like Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday,
which we should two of those four days
work for you? The best. Like 4:30 to 5:30.
If I just say Tuesday,
4:30 at 5:30 and Thursday,
4:30 to 5:30 as an office hour,
would that be an issue for you guys to
attend?
Just you can just come in here,
ask any questions.
About homework,
about your project or anything.
Would those two days work?
That works for me.
OK.
So anyone have any issue to attend at
least one of those two days for office
hour 4:30 to 5:30. Anyone have any issue?
OK, going once.
Going twice.
OK.
So let's say Tuesday,
Thursday 4:30 to 4:30 to 5:30, OK?
That would be the office hour.
I'll send you teams meeting invite.
So.
So if you do have any questions please.
Send teams invite.
OK.
Alright,
let me just talk about homework a little
bit, right.
So this is the homework I sent to you
guys.
OK so.
There will be some requirement for you
guys to use some data right?
So that if you're if there's really like
a form of French daily factor that you
can definitely find the data from their
website,
you can just literally Google from a
French daily factor. Google, right?
French daily factors, OK.
So then you got here and you can just go
to a database Edu and then they have.
The daily data for you, it's right there.
And then you can download from as a CSV.
And if there's any other data from for
example, like those stock price data,
I do not anticipate,
I do not expect you guys to purchase any
membership or so.
What you can do is basically use use this
Class 1 Jupiter notebook, right?
Right.
So then what you need to do is you need
to really import this library and then
someone maybe asks the question, OK.
So how am I going to import those
libraries?
How do I do that?
OK, let me just give you one example.
So then.
So then hopefully after this example it
won't be an issue for you.
So I hope you have a GitHub GitHub
package with you.
So then so then for example,
you can actually.
Gosh.
You can actually create a repository and
then you can even.
You can even share your repository with
your friend with your group members.
And then I do have a repository,
the markup teaching finance, right?
So then what you can do is see there is a
green button of the code.
And then we just delete this one.
So this is in in the code.
You can click here and then GitHub does
offer really convenient infrastructure
called code spaces, right?
So the code spaces is a virtual machine
that you can run those Jupyter notebooks.
So you can just basically say, hey,
let me just create a code space on main.
So if you click that.
And then you're going to set up the the
the virtual machine for you.
Right.
So then you're gonna spend some time to
set up this virtual machine if you're
familiar with, for example,
the virtual AI of Google.
This is exactly the vertex AI.
If you're familiar with any other.
Coding editor on Windows.
It's sort of the same, no,
no difference at all, right.
Right. So then just taking one minute,
you have this entire virtual machine set
up?
You can change the way how you.
How you work on it.
So it's pretty pretty convenient.
Right. And then?
You open those Jupiter notebooks I share
on D2L.
Usually is.
I just wanna zoom out a little bit.
So then you definitely see I'm importing
this.
Let me just open up,
create a 11 new Jupiter notebook.
Notebook.
The IP OK.
So now you open this one.
You definitely can copy paste my code.
Let's see you copy this code.
Here you add a code here so then you see
there's one import command you say you
want to run it. You just click here.
You want to run it and then you gonna ask
you what is the Python environment.
Now you wanna based upon.
To run this just one line of importing
library command,
so you can just click the piping
environment.
And click this.
Recommended is a Python 3 point 13.12.1.
So that, yes,
you're doing is just import this library
and apparently this library finance is
not a library that was installed to this
to this virtual machine.
Default.
So what you need to do is you know this
is not being so.
Basically this module found error is
basically saying that you have not
installed this.
This this module or this library what you
need to do is you need to go to this
command piece. This called terminal right?
So this is really like you can run some
Linux.
Command.
For example you can say LS is basically
what's in your folder and you can see
what's in your folder.
And and you will you can you have two
ways you can install this package here
within that notebook or you can just
basically install in this in this
terminal.
So how you are going to install this is
use a PIP install command.
So you just type pip install.
And that's basically the command that you
you will install this package to your
virtual machine.
And you can literally double click this
WI finance and copy and paste it here.
OK, allow paste.
So then and then we just so man, OK.
So you're really Pap installing.
This WI finance pad library so you can
just click enter or return so it will
install that library to your virtual
machine right? So then.
Just give it some time.
Umm.
Give you some time.
You're going to tell you that
successfully install this so that you can
restart.
This Jubilee notebook your your Jubilee
notebook. You can clear all the outputs.
You can rerun it.
And then you see the check mark.
You know it's run through, OK.
You you just run through this,
this this import command so as you can
see in in my code I have.
I have all of those so that you can
really copy and paste to your notebook.
So I'm reloading the Yahoo Finance API.
I'm really loading this stat model API,
pandas,
Numpy and daytime and believe those are
the packages that you know,
whatever virtual machine you're using on
the GitHub you already have that on
default so.
Try to fetch data from the start date end
date in different tickers that you want
to fetch the data and and you can just
run run it and definitely you will see
another error message saying that.
The stat model is not installed.
So what you do is you go back to this
terminal and you pick install.
These stat models.
So it's successfully installed this.
You can clear that.
You can just restart it.
You just rerun it.
So as you can see,
Oneonone completed a one-on-one completed
and five on five completed.
Because I'm loading I'm fetching like 5.
The stock price data for five of them.
And then what you can do, you can do,
you can do use the head command to see
actually see how the data looks like.
You can see the 1st 5 rows.
Let's say if you wanna see the 1st 10 R.
They just put the 10 inside the Princess.
You see the 1st 10 rows.
OK,
the reason Tesla is an age is because we
go back to 2010, right?
So then Tesla was not a public company
yet at that moment, right?
So then. So that's how you load the data,
right?
So then this Yahoo Finance API is 100%
free.
You don't need to purchase anything,
you just need to load this.
Use this one and and and download data in
in this way.
So that's that's totally free.
If you want to go.
If you actually go to the Yahoo Finance
website,
you may have to pay some money for data.
I I don't think we should be doing that
for this class, OK?
Let's see.
So then in case you're using Google Colab.
So, right,
so then you just go to Google Colab.
OK.
I don't.
Let's say you create a new notebook.
Right.
So then they they tell you some new
features, right?
So then definitely you can just copy and
paste the code over there as well.
Let me just copy this.
The call lab.
To that to here right.
So then, so then you run it.
He will complain that there is no Yahoo
finance package I guess.
Oh OK. So Kolab is smaller, right?
So then you already have the Yahoo
finance or stack models installed so that
you don't.
You do not have to install those package
yourself.
And then there's a great feature of Kolab
is Gemini.
So Gemini is automatically.
Incorporated in this function and by the
way,
you can definitely check your system RAM
and your disk and then it seems like it's
good.
You know you have a 12 gigabyte of RAM.
It's good enough to run any model that we
want to run here,
so in case you wanna see the data that
stock data stock, uh stock,
under score data, you can just say hey.
Kyle, Jim, and I, I want to track the 1st.
55 rolls of stock under score data.
Boom and then.
Yeah.
So then you just he just tell you just
use the have you can copy here and add a
code well or you can just. Here.
Let me just copy the same prompt.
Yep, Frank,
you don't actually need a prank by
anyways, but phone you have you.
You can see the data right?
So do so.
You can just work with Gemini.
You can work with your team to continue
coding.
Once you have the data over there with
you, right? Just.
One call out one has up is, you know,
Gemini may not always give you the right
answer. OK. You can do Gemini,
but not necessarily they give you 100%
right answer.
So when you decode it,
you may gonna take some time. OK question,
Haroon.
Uh,
what's are working directly when we use
collab?
Because I had trouble using acsb file
when I use collab for assignment #1.
And I had to go into contents and is it
possible to make it easy and change the
Uh huh.
working directory there?
You mean trying to load the data from a
CSV in the call lab?
Yeah.
OK.
So usually like the source data we use is
is from and then you can actually import
a cargo package and you can directly
download data from cargo.
I can show you how to do that as another
another way to work on collab.
You know GitHub will be a a easier way if
you collaborate with your team members.
Call Lab will be difficult because.
He's really like your your personal
instance, right? To work on that.
So you decide with your team.
So then if you feel like you guys can
work on the call lab individually and
eventually use GitHub to really merge
your codes, that's totally fine with me.
But in case that you want to load the
data CSV from cargo to collab I I can
definitely show you how to do that.
It's quite easy.
I I can guess that I'll I'll upload the
code to show you guys how to do that
directly loading data from Kaggle in in
collab.
So then you can actually work on collab.
Would it be possible for you to show me
how to upload it directly from your
computer rather than Kegel?
02 here.
I guess you can just upload here, right?
Oh, it's that easy.
I guess so.
I had a lot of trouble doing that,
so I didn't right. Thank you.
Sure.
Right. So then you have the data here.
Right, so copy path. OK,
so you can even do copy path.
That's awesome.
Let's see df equals PD.
You know what?
Is that what you want?
Yes, thank you.
OK, perfect.
Question I I'm not quite sure about the
other call lab is. Do you have?
Do you guys have to pay for it?
Yeah. OK.
That's good.
I mean 12 gigab.
It's free.
Oh, OK.
12 gigabytes of RAM and then 107 gigabyte
of disk hard drive. That's awesome. Enjoy.
OK, so you you can.
You can definitely work on call lab if
that's that's a easier way for you guys.
And after that you can save a copy in
GitHub if you guys share a repository on
GitHub and then you can definitely save
your copies on GitHub so that you can
just merge your codes eventually.
I just need 1111 version of your homework.
I don't need five or four.
So then you guys decide how to work on it.
You can use π hub. You can use Kolab.
Or or Kaggle Kaggle so offers a virtual
machine either way,
so pretty much all the virtual machines
connect to GitHub that you guys can share
codes.
Any question?
Huh.
OK.
I don't need a second.
Alright, let's, let's continue.
Well, we have.
Gone last time.
OK.
So last time we talked about the
classification model and then we talk
about the bankruptcy.
Example right?
So then we said, OK,
so we we talk about unbalanced classes,
say we do have like two classes.
If they are balanced and then you MIS
predict either the Class A or Class B or
or plus Class B and Class N.
So then this is really like the error
made in training.
So then you need to do a better job on
that.
However.
If the true population is not balanced
you you you definitely skew one side
versus the other.
So then it is really possible that for
your classification result that you you
have you have like imperfect results.
So then we we talk about how to balance
the data.
So then to make your model like helpful
in the end instead of just like basically.
A default value.
So there are several metrics that you can
gauge the.
The performance of those classification
models.
Oh.
You you guys can see my screen right?
Yes, yes. OK. So one thing is.
The the confusion matrix.
I think last time we talked about the
confusion matrix.
So then,
so this is the matrix we have seen last
time.
So then I'm sorry,
I just make it a lot of.
Variables, but eventually it will be.
It will be easier to to to to understand.
I'm sorry, I just.
I shouldn't make that.
So so say that we have a confusion matrix.
I'm sorry, that was right.
We have a confusion matrix and this is
the actual values and those are
predictions, so actual values.
Let's just pretend we only have two
classes.
Other cool classes is a flag and there's
a yes or no.
So yes,
no could be the company the company went
bankruptcy.
Yes, there's one.
No, is a zero, or do we?
Do we approve a loan to a person? Yes,
it's a one.
No, there's a no.
So through the classification model,
right?
So then you eventually going to have only
four.
4 outcomes. Basically,
that's a two by two matrix.
The actual value is yes.
Your prediction is yes.
So that that is what we call the true
positive.
So TEP represents to true positive. OK.
So then it was supposed to be, yes.
And you're predicting, yes.
So that's true positive. However,
if the actual Y is negative,
meaning we are not going to prove that
that loan to that person.
However, your prediction is also.
A.
No to to to to the loan to that person.
So then this is a true negative.
So it's ATM.
So as you can see for any classification
model,
we are trying to maximize this TN and TP.
Or, or more precisely,
the proportion of this tntp.
Overall,
the reason is there are another two cases.
Are sort of the wrong cases. For example,
the actual is.
Meaning we are supposed to keep that
person alone,
or we're supposed that that company is
supposed to go bankruptcy.
However, we are predicting no.
So then this is the false negative.
Because we're predicting negative,
but the negative is factually wrong.
We are supposed to predict in positive.
However,
predict negative to a value that is
supposed to be positive.
So then we call it a false negative.
In the other hand, the actual value is no.
However, we predicted yes,
so that is the false positive, so.
There is only those four outcomes that
can.
You can have from a classification model
results true negative, true positive,
false positive and false negative.
We are maximizing the proportion of.
The true negative and true positive so
that we define a number of matrix to to,
to.
To quantify the performance of the
classification model.
The foundation of all the metrics we
define is based upon this confusion
matrix.
So then that's why pretty much all data
scientists will print the confusion
matrix first.
To understand the performance and then
you.
Honestly, I do.
Not really.
Remember, really memorize those rate.
Although it's called a sensitivity
specificity.
So then you don't have to remember those.
Your confusion matrix is going to be the
key.
To communicate with your peers or with
your stakeholders with you know about
your target.
So then anyone, everyone,
hopefully after this class can read those
confusion matrix.
But you really do not have to remember
those metrics. With that being said,
we do define those metrics.
One thing is called a true positive rate
and TPR.
What is that?
That is the true positive rate.
Divided by the true positive rate.
And false negative rate.
That is a proportion of the actual
positive that are correctly identified by
the model,
meaning the true positives positives
divided by all the examples that are
supposed to be positive.
OK.
So that is a true.
Positive rate TPR and then we call it the
sensitivity.
Associate with the true, are you?
Another one is called false positive rate.
By the way,
the true positive rate is one thing that
we hope we can maximize the false neg and
positive rate is FPR.
It is the false positive divided by the
false positive plus the true negative.
What is that?
That is,
the proportion of the actual negatives.
That are incorpor classified as positive,
meaning this is something that is wrong
and then we hope to minimize and this
value is 1 minus the specificity and the
specificity is a true negative divided by
false positive plus true negative meaning
this part divided by this this entire
role.
And that's the fun thing that we hope to
maximize as well.
So sensitivity and specificity are two
numbers we hope to maximize.
And the false positive is something we
hope to minimize.
The reason why we even need false
positive is the following side.
But before I go to the following slide.
How confusing are those matrix to you
guys right now?
Is that good or not so great so far?
I think it makes sense.
OK.
Thank you.
Does it make sense to everyone?
So based upon this matrix we can
calculate those values.
So true positive is really the true
positive divide by the number in this row.
False positive is the false positive
number divided by the number.
The summation of this row and the
specificity is the true negative number
divided by the summation of this row.
That's basically how I memorize those.
And sensitivity, specificity,
sensitivity is associated with a positive
numbers positive positive results and
specificity associated with a true
negative results.
That's how you memorize it.
Hopefully you can memorize it in this way.
That's my way to memorize it.
Not necessarily is the best way. OK,
so you have those values defined. OK.
This is another example, OK.
Let's say remember I I I talked to you
guys.
Let let me show you guys the outcome of
those results right first.
We we talk about, we gonna run,
we gonna run.
We we we run logistic regression model.
But you you guys didn't see what is
outcome of logistic regression model.
This is the outcome,
so outcome of this logistic regression
model is basically a number between zero
and one associated with every single case
you're predicting.
So you're predicting if a company a,
whether or not company.
Hey,
it's is going to go bankruptcy and this
65.77% is going to be the outcome,
the raw outcome from the logistic
regression.
Basically,
the model is saying the company is 55.
77% Go bankruptcy.
And sometimes you're going to see this
number .
0021 that basically model saying based
upon the the the training data,
the model learn from,
it's only less than 1%,
your company will go bankruptcy, OK.
And sometimes it's even higher.
Like let me just change.
The number, for example 99.
So we can have 99%.
But eventually, eventually remember,
we start with some 01 values as a
starting point of this.
Of this logistic regressions, right?
We only say one company when bankruptcy
or one company did not go bankruptcy.
That's 01 flag and even for loan approval,
you're either give that person a loan or
you're not giving that person a loan.
Is it only zero and one?
There we have to define a way to convert
those.
Probabilities.
Into only two values, zero and one.
So then we need to somehow define a
threshold.
A threshold is a number if the
probability bigger than that threshold,
I can say it is A1.
If the probability lower than threshold
we hope will give that case A0.
That's how we define the threshold and
how we divide the 01.
Interval into two values.
And name it and Mark it as zero and one
is how we do it.
So then the threshold is playing a role
here.
And and what is the good or bad the
threshold we should be using as a default
that threshold is .5 S.
Then you can see.
Some you can you see the final result
from your you know confusion matrix.
It will look like this.
I'm just making up those numbers.
Demonstrate what I mean.
So I'm using threshold.
The entire testing data will look like
this.
I have this number of true negative.
I have this number of true positive and I
have this number as a false positive and
this number of false negative.
Based upon a threshold equals to 0.5.
And since I have a threshold .5,
I can calculate the true positive rate
which is this 1015 divided by the
summation of this row.
So that give me 157 five and I can
calculate my false positive rate.
That is,
this number divided by the summation of
this row.
That's only .05 this number .57 five,
and this number .0534.
Is they both based upon assumption that
my threshold should be .5?
So then I have this confusion matrix.
I calculate this but it does not mean my
threshold has to be .5.
If I change the threshold a little bit,
I change the threshold to be .69.
My confusion matrix changed.
To this one and under this threshold the
number,
although the summation of those four
numbers still remain the same,
but they gonna be reallocated.
So then my TPR based upon this threshold
is only .
2910 and my false rate false positive
rate is only .0174.
So as you can see.
My true positive rate declined
significantly under the new threshold.
This is really a bad news for me.
However,
my false positive rate also declined
significantly.
That's actually good news.
So eventually you need to balance what
the threshold.
You want to use because you need to know
whether this is a false positive rate,
mean more to you or the true positive
rate mean more to you.
Let me give you one the actual example.
The actual example is you want to use the
model to identify.
Who is the top where you customers?
So say you're running a website, right?
So then you collect their their
transaction data.
Some people purchase more,
some people purchase less,
but based upon who they are you you may
collect some you know phmo graphic data.
You may collect a demographic data.
Who they are, how old they are,
where they live, you know,
hopefully you can. You can.
You can buy some data like their income
and then and then also you do have the
data. Now what they purchase on day one.
As for the business, the customer,
the customers have a different value.
Social wisdom.
Some customer may purchase $1000 from
your website.
Some customer only purchase $10 from your
website.
The difference is your effort serving
those customers from a marketing
perspective will be totally different for
high value customers,
you want to send them emails.
You want to send them reminders.
You want to give them some discount so
that they can come back purchase more.
Because even though you give them a 20%
discount and and their lifetime value is
out $1000,
still earn $800 out of it for for $10
worth customer.
You wouldn't want to do anything.
That's how you actually differentiate
those customers. And in that case.
The If you want to maximize this true
positive rate,
meaning identify who are the high value
customers.
The reason behind seeing is you're seeing.
This true positive rate that is
associated with your margin that is
associated with your profit or revenue,
so that you want to maximize this.
In the same time,
you wouldn't want to see your false
positive rate.
You know super high,
but you this is something that you want
to prioritize because you do have a
different way of social anthem.
Another side,
you're seeing your marketing is just
basically a channel that attract your
customers coming back to purchase and
this is another revenue driven business.
This is really a cost driven business.
If that's the case,
the way to associate with your true
positive rate and your false positive
rate are totally different.
You may want to focus on this false
positive rate over the true positive rate
just because they may have a different
cost.
So.
What number you want to optimize?
It totally depend on your business model.
That's point I wanna make.
But you can play around with different
threshold. You can have,
you can even manually.
You know,
tweak this true positive rate and false
positive rate to different numbers.
I just want to show you that yes,
we have a default value .5.
You know,
usually people consider those are gold
the golden standard.
But there's so many numbers.
Any parameters you can tweak to achieve
the numbers you want,
but you need to understand what is a
business model behind the scene and you
want to maximize what another metrics to
fit your business model.
So that's the one thing I usually remind
my direct reports, you know,
in this class,
we can always consider you know,
we have some really fancy data,
really cool data.
We can build a model based upon it and
play some games and then.
Show people some fancy models,
but in real life you're dealing with
business problems and business problem is
more.
Sophisticated,
complicated than a a A number machine
learning fun game.
So then you need to figure out.
Revenue cost.
What other metrics behind the scene?
Because those are going to be working as
the weights associated with your your
class, your classification.
Metrics and you need to optimize your
model based upon the weight behind the
scene, not necessarily.
You have to go to this threshold .
5 does it make sense?
OK.
Hopefully he does.
So we do have we play around with dear
friends threshold. We have those numbers.
What we can sketch is this chart is this
called Roc,
the receiver operating character
characteristics curve Roc.
What is Roc telling us?
The the X axis is your false positive
rate.
The Y axis is the true positive rate.
We are.
We are really changing the dear friend.
Threshold you have.
The threshold equals Infinity.
You have threshold equals 76.
You have threshold equals 6069.
You have a threshold equals 0 for values.
You have a different true positive rate
and false positive rate.
That's how you can sketch that curve on
this 01 multiply 01 plane on this box.
The area under this curve is called
literally area under the curve.
With AUC and AUC is a number between zero
and one.
So this number is quantified whether or
not the classification model you build is
it better than a pure gas,
meaning everything is half a tab.
I have no information.
I just guess it.
I cannot tell what's the what's the case
one versus case B.
What is positive versus negative?
I cannot tell any difference,
so that's a pure gas.
For a pure gas.
You have five of AUC if for any model you
have.
The area under this Roc bigger than .5,
you're sort of quantifying that your
model is definitely better than a pure
gas, OK?
So this number you can tell people that
it's definitely better model than a pure
gas,
because people gonna argue with what's
the difference between neural model and
the pure gas. You you can tell that.
And this is the way how you quantify it
and and and this way it's going to tell
people like how much your model is better
than the pure gas and those of you can
sort of compare your model versus another
competing model.
Using AUC to see which model is better,
you can definitely do that.
It's a way to prove this value.
Definitely bring some value.
It's a way to compare models one model
against another.
Again, this is a based upon.
That you know the numbers behind the
scene,
there is no way to associate with it.
If you want to maximize revenue.
If you want to reduce cars,
you want to maximize or minimize some
numbers in your business model and then
this Roc and AOC number could be changed.
OK.
As you can see,
there are some extreme cases of this Roc
though.
What are those, the AUC equal to one?
What is AUC equal to 1?
Meaning I am fulfilling this entire?
Plane. What does that mean?
If your AOC AUC equal to one,
that means your you have a direct
horizontal line here where atpr the true
positive rate equal to 1.
If your true positive rate equal to one,
you know the formula that is the true
positive rate divided by summation of
this row not equals to one.
That means your false negative equals
zero,
and if your false positive rate equal to
0,
meaning for all the lines here your false
your your false positive rate equal to 0
so then you can say OK.
Your false positive equals 0,
so then this will be the basket scenario
fully understand.
You'll fully understand the data,
the cases they were dealing with.
We's not being sad.
If you have a perfect score,
a perfect AUC is that a good thing or a
bad thing?
In reality.
In reality that your your data scientist
or data analyst,
your data person come to you and say hey
manager I I I run the model and then I
know fully.
Everything you know from you know how you
build your portfolio,
how you build anything and then and then
you ask you ask him or her what's your,
what's your AUC and that person said he
or she said, OK,
the AUC of my model is one.
Should you feel happy about it,
or should you feel unhappy about it?
I probably wouldn't believe them.
It's too good to be true, right?
Yeah.
Yeah, so usually.
That means you're right, Matt.
Your your intuition is 100% right.
And then if you receive someone report to
you.
That my AUC is one.
It's too good to be true and actually
actually if someone report to you. OK,
you know what my AUC is bigger than .95.
I have more than 95% of chance that
identify perfectly.
Like one versus the 0 positive versus
negative case one versus case B,
case one versus case 2.
You need to go through the model with
your data person.
Line by line of his code or her code.
It's it's definitely too true,
too good to be true.
There's one thing.
There's one concept called knowledge
leakage that means he or she may use the
data in a model that he or she should not
be using.
What those are and what what are those
knowledge?
Those knowledge could be some future data.
Those knowledge could be some data that
directly related to the final decision.
OK.
So for example,
like I'm predicting future future revenue,
someone uses the future unit sales
instead of I.
I'm predicting the number of dollars.
The company will earn tomorrow.
And and one common mistake is someone use
how many in terms of how many box of the
product you sold how many.
Unit of product you sold.
As a as a as a as a leading indicator in
in his or her model,
and usually that model will be very
accurate.
But that's something he or she should not
be using.
Because if I know how many units of
product I I will sell tomorrow,
I can just simply multiply my price and I
have 100% accurate revenue.
So you do not have to do any prediction.
And before you have a crystal ball,
you wouldn't know how many.
You know unit of a.
Probably you will be selling tomorrow.
You send me so tomorrow.
So then there's no way. No way.
You you can use that feature.
You can use that information in a in in a
revenue prediction problem.
And that is a knowledge leakage, right?
That's a knowledge leakage and and if you
know.
If you know for example, you,
you you someone is using like the future.
The future profit as a as a future to
predicting whether or not.
Not a stock should be including your
portfolio.
This is something.
This is also the knowledge leakage that
you should argue.
You should talk to the person whether or
not that profit that stock price is based
upon his prediction or his basically
bringing some future future information
here as here today which you you should
not be knowing.
You should not know, so you should.
A wide any knowledge leakage in the inner
model, so be careful.
This is an extreme case not equal to one,
and this is too good and usually in my
career it has never happened that you
have you have AUC bigger than .
95 unless the data is so perfect like
someone just manually create a data, sure,
otherwise in.
Real life examples you you wouldn't have
that that you wouldn't have that.
That that high high accuracy,
you wouldn't have it.
And then by sometimes you wouldn't have
the AUC equal to 0 either,
meaning that the model.
100% cannot figure it out.
The difference between those two cases,
you wouldn't have that either.
So AUC equal to .5.
What does that mean?
This is sort of like.
There is a distribution of the of the
true cases.
There is distribution of false cases and
then you move the bars threshold from
left to hand.
Right hand. They have the same proportion.
So you really cannot tell which is which.
So that's that's you have AUC equals .5.
You can just flip a point.
Flip a coin.
So that's you.
You you have this 1/5.
South .5 is sort of like you.
You you cannot tell where you can just
simply consider this simply coin tossing
your toss.
Toss a coin.
There's, there's no difference.
And you have to show your model bigger
than that and then bigger than you.
See equals 2.5.
That makes your model sort of useful.
I see. So.
So those are the metrics that you can you
can gauge the performance of a
classification model and the app
applications of a classification models.
And you definitely can do the credit
scoring.
So then the credit scoring could be.
A more typical problem, right?
So then,
because we are talking about only binary
outcomes zero and one,
but credit scoring could be.
A non binary so you can have ABCD and
Triple H,
triple B and those kind of cases.
So it will be more difficult.
But there you know from idea, perspective,
concept, perspective,
they are just running other
classification model behind the scenes.
You can also do the flawed detection,
right?
So there are so many cases that you you
use the data you can,
you know your credit card company, your,
your.
For example,
chase or different companies you spend.
A big amount of money on something and
they gonna call you.
They gonna send you a message and saying
that.
Really,
you spend the money or or do you think
this is really a fraud and someone you
know or threat that someone took your
credit card?
So then spend the money like without your
permission.
So as you can imagine,
they must have used.
Your historical.
Transaction patterns to build a model
associated with your pattern associated
with you,
and then if there's any amount really
higher or lower,
usually higher then that pattern,
so then you can contact you.
They're confirming that.
It's really an anomaly where anomaly in
classification model is they're
predicting 1, meaning you know it's.
It definitely looks like a fraud.
And also you know this is how Google is
identifying the scams.
The way how you tell Google, OK,
this is scam. This is not a scam.
This is scam. This is not scam.
So you're always doing that.
The Google always asks you the question
that OK, do you think this is scam?
This e-mail is a scam or not.
So the reason why Google is asking you
those questions #1 the the the click yes
or no.
You're providing the data to Google.
You're labeling.
Those emails for Google?
You're telling Google, OK,
this to me is not a scam.
The reason Google is asking you is for
those emails.
They're really in around the boundary.
They for example like this.
Those emails are around this threshold .
5 let me just use .
5 as example for those emails.
It could be treated like points 51 or .49.
Google is also pondering that if this is
scam.
So that's why Google does not want to
delete or automatically throw that e-mail.
How to the trash folder that he asks you
so then you provide more data and Google
is actually using your labels of those
emails to retrain their models.
So next time it will be more and more
accurate.
That's how Google runs and how Google is
using your clicks,
clicks to retrain those.
Model.
That's why the Google models and scan
models are getting more and more accurate.
OK,
you're you're providing data to Google.
Your high of helping Google to label
those emails and then and then Google can
definitely run a classification model
behind the scenes.
So another one is I mentioned this loan
approval process, right?
So then this is something that we can
definitely try and the data is here.
You can definitely try this data.
It's pretty cool.
Hyperlink open hyperlink.
Oh gosh.
OK, I can show you the data.
So the data is actually from Kaggle.
So then, by the way, Haroon, this is the.
This is the way how you bring a cargo
data here.
So then you just import a cargo hub and
then you can actually.
Fashion data from cargo to your instance.
I did that.
I just found everything on on GitHub,
right, so then you bring the data here.
So this is the data.
So in the data we do have the person age
person gender Alli I do.
I think I have a slide for this.
And the data we have those information
person age person, gender, person,
education person, income,
years of employment experience,
whether or not that person owns a home.
Is it rent or is it own words 100% owned
or the home is on mortgage and and how
much money?
That person is trying to charge a loan
from the bank or or from you.
And what's the purpose of the loan?
It is.
You are using the money to buy a car or
buy another house or sell. And what is?
Your grade interest rate, right,
because here in the US that you may not,
you have to agree on an interest rate
then not necessarily following the.
The market rate, whatever rate you, you,
you guys agree on?
So then that's part of it.
And how much of that loan as a percentage
of your annual income?
Right,
so you have this income and this is
really the amount divide by the income?
And like in years,
how long is that person's credit history
and that credit credit score of that
person?
And and whether or not that person has a
default on different loans.
And here is the final status.
One is you're you're going to approve not
loan and 0 is you're going to reject it.
OK, just seeing this on this data. What?
What information do you guys think will
be will be really important in predicting
whether or not you're gonna.
You're gonna keep that person alone.
What's your #1?
#2.
#3 factors if your your person deciding
that the loan.
Score.
OK.
Any other one?
Maybe the amount of the loan and their
income.
Am I audible?
OK.
That makes sense.
Previous default.
Our previous loan default.
Yeah, yeah. You you want to know that,
right? Because.
This is turns out to be very important.
Very important factor,
yes and any other things.
You could also take a look at home
ownership because you could put a lien
against.
Against their assets if.
They default on your loan.
Your proportion it means that percent of
income.
I mean, the person's home ownership.
Oh, person, haul me in their ownership.
Yes,
because you want to use as collateral,
right?
Lateral.
So then if they they default,
at least you can.
You can.
You, you you can do some damage.
Recovery, right?
So then you can.
You can take that that that home, right?
So then if that person running a home.
So then,
if that person default and then you
pretty much as a bank,
you are losing money.
Right.
Right. So then I I agree with you guys.
I think those are the most important
factors, right?
So then definitely I guess so.
So from a modeling perspective, right,
so you do have those.
You do have those factors that your data.
So that you're really predicting this
long status using all the data that is
available.
So here so you have those information,
right?
So then one thing I have to go out is.
For age, for the personal age.
Those are numbers.
Right. And then personal income,
this is also numbers.
Experience this numbers.
Loan amount is also numbers regular
numbers.
Those are those are numerical numerical
factors or numerical features. For those,
those are quite easy.
So you can you can really throw those
numerical numbers into your logistic
regression.
There are also other other factors,
for example like whether or not that
person default on previous loan,
there will be only two way using yes or
no.
And what is the purpose of the current
loan?
So it could be personal.
It could be education.
It could be medical.
And and what that person education must
high school. Whatever.
And hopefully we do not use the gender as
a factor,
whether or not a person owns a home is
run on a mortgage.
And those are those are a non numerical
features.
And those are called categorical features
and you have to convert those categorical
features.
Into the numerical features.
Otherwise,
the logistic regression cannot really use
the word as a part of input.
So the way how you do that is through
this function.
This function called. Well,
it's kind of easy.
Is it called get dummies?
And so it's a default function in pandas.
It's really a one off encoding.
So what does it do?
Is it's the following.
So for example like there is only four
cases of the home ownership, you own it.
And let me show you what I mean.
There's only four unique values of this
home ownership.
You run it, you own it.
You sort of own it on mortgage.
Other I have no idea what other case
means.
So then you will create.
You will separate those four values into
3 columns.
Where you create a flag associated with
rent A flag associated with own a flag
associated mortgage,
but you're not going to create a flag
associated with other.
The reason is you.
You do want to have those ones covering
all four cases.
Because you want to make sure that the 0
value in those three columns actually
makes some sense.
Because if you.
Give the one the social all unique values,
the zero actually do not make any sense.
The zero in the collaborative of those
three column you choose out of those four
means the other unique way.
That was 0 means.
This sort of like whether or not a person
default on previous loan.
You only create a value of frag
association, no or yes.
Let's let's pretend that you create a
column associated with a.
Yes,
that person did default on previous loan,
then the zero value in that yes black
column means no.
That's that's what it means.
So that you do not say you have 5.
Or in this one you have six unique values.
You only need 5 columns.
You have two I use.
You only need one call.
So you you only need to create.
An unique value -1 column to make sure
that zero in those n -,
1 columns means the other one that you
didn't create a.
You didn't create a specific column.
A social with that.
That's how it works, OK.
So that eventually you have you have
default yes column you have.
Long intent like home improvement,
medical, personal.
Column and education.
The one you didn't include is personal.
And and you you have all the columns to
just create from running this code and
and and Python will automatically do that
work for you.
But you have to know the reason you did
not model.
No,
just because the zero in the yes actually
means no. OK.
You have those columns created.
And and then you can actually incorporate
those.
Was can you recall variables in the
logistic regression?
Let me just this is the way that you can
definitely do the logistical regression.
I actually split the data into a trained
data and test the data.
So the training and test data is I want
to train a model.
I want to hold out the test data as a
individual separate group.
I do not want the the computer want the
machine to learn.
From the test data and then I can test my
model on the test data.
There's going to be a a bias virus
balance that we gonna touch base in, in,
in the second-half of the class.
And there's a purpose of doing that just
from a concept perspective,
you want to you want to learn something
and and still making sense to have.
Final exam because you know the real
professor.
Want to know whether or not you actually
learn from the class.
You know you can consider as test data
set as your final exam for this.
For this model,
I split the data into train and test and
run logistic regression.
I feed this logistic regression on the X
train, meaning those features I have.
Against those 01 values.
As my target.
So that I will have the probability
coming out of the place and I can create
a confusion matrix.
I can create this AUC and Roc curve that
I showed you.
So this is actually my confusion matrix.
Again,
this confusion Matrix is based upon the .
5 as the threshold.
If you want to change for all the
classification model,
if you name it logistic regression,
namely network.
Name it tree models. .
5 is the default value.
It does not mean you cannot change it.
It just means that default and you can
change as needed.
And this confusion matrix is how I'm
telling whether or not I should for this
101.
5 I should approve their loans and then
and actually the data is telling me yes.
And then in reality, they prove.
They prove them.
For those guys,
I should not be approving their loan.
In reality, they did it.
And those are the false positive and
false negative ones.
And the model isn't perfect.
Isn't perfect and accuracy is a .
85 is not perfect at all,
but the the area under curve is .
87 is definitely better.
Then a pure gas much better.
OK. And here are the numbers.
And this is the way to show you that.
Say I use different values.
How am I going to miss class different
cases so default is .5?
I have those cases randomly selected one
I use .2.
It seems like I I misclassified a lot of
here.
It should have been classified as zero
because I'm lower.
I put this line right here so that I I I
predict them as one.
However, they just misclassified.
I use .4. It's getting better.
Because I I I didn't misclassify those.
They should have been classified as zero
and then and now is classified as zero.
But still for those guys I misclassified
and I'm just moving the the line around.
Just show you guys moving the threshold
away from this .
5 how the same data gonna look like.
They they look like differently and then
you have different misclassification.
And this is how I show you how this ar
OCAOC is calculated.
This is based upon different threshold,
for example.
Hi the way I know whether you really like
click everything I'll.
So for example this this is one close to
perfect, one is .5 this is this one.
So this telling you that you are using a
thread hold .
51 and those are the metrics associated
with it and how the tprf rfpr are
calculated.
So it's really on this Roc curve.
Another one is.
So from now on,
since we are using a classification model,
there's one thing is called the future
importance. What is that?
So remember, I asked you before I run.
I run this model.
What do you think?
Are the most important factors you'll be
giving that person alone your, your.
You guys said OK,
I need to take care of that person's
income.
I need to take care of that person's home
ownership.
And the loan amount,
the credit score and and and whether or
not a person default in the previous loan
that that person default previously so.
Hmm.
This feature importance data is going to
tell you you can actually quantify the
importance of those factors.
And turns out.
If a person default in their previous
loan, it is a huge negative impact.
For the model to decide whether or not it
will approve your next loan,
this is not a single factor,
but this is definitely one biggest
negative impact to your next loan
approval.
All process very negative and if you use
if your ownership is a friend. However,
it's a really positive and interest rate
is is. Is higher is also positive.
This is sort of like why the banks are
doing business with you.
So you're saying that I'm running same
amount of loan and I'm saying I'm
offering you. I'm accepting.
Higher interest rate.
I'm accepting more risky.
Right from my end, not the bank's end.
And the banks can definitely earn some
premium from me.
So the banks are more willing to to, to,
to give you a loan.
The reason is maybe the risk of giving
the person alone is high.
However,
the the high interest rate is compensate
that risk that the bank is suffering.
So that is something that a positive to.
The approval decision.
And definitely your work experience is
adding.
A positive value, however, the age is not.
The bank is old,
is definitely worrying whether or not you
have enough work.
Years to repay the loan.
So then it is definitely not good,
but I'm not quite sure whether or not you
know the current banks are still using
this information,
or if there is any discrimination kind of
effort associated with it.
I'm not sure,
but in case they wanna use that is, is,
is is how it works.
And also they you say this long,
intense education, unfortunately.
Is, is, is,
is not positive which is kind of
interesting.
And also,
you're only in the home and it is an
active.
I think those are really.
Questionable from this logistic
regression results.
And and that's sort of the story from
this long case and from the slides.
Yes,
we got this default is very important.
The credit score varying for loan amount
ownership income,
as I think we miss is interest rate and
turns out from this data from this
logistic regression model interest rate
is important.
Some data I created for this is I do want
to show you.
How run is?
On excel.
Instead of Python.
I output the data into this excel.
Like what?
I said we are now running a linear
regression model.
We are actually running a logistic
regression model just in case, right?
I'm just out of curiosity.
I want to run a linear regression model I
did.
And those are the coefficients and those
are P values.
Arguably,
they may align with the logistic
regression in terms of how important
those factors are.
But this is.
The outcome of your linear regression.
The issue of linear regression is.
You the values can be really between zero
and one and varying really a lot.
And as you can see those are values I'm
supposed to predict as zeros.
I'm hoping they're close to 0,
but they're close to 0 and then they're
not.
They're varying between zero and one,
and some of them negative values.
For linear regression models,
you do not really have any control of
those values.
Harron, any question.
I had a question.
So could we place more weight on certain
binary variables such as like previous
loan default rate?
Could we rather than just scaling the
entire data set and all the variables in
it?
Could we do put a heavy penalty on
previous default rate compared to other
variables because.
Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah.
So those are the parameter tuning process
you're talking about.
There are so many parameters that you can
tweak, right?
So then yes, totally totally.
I I'm just basically using the outer box
function.
And and and and. Unfortunately, Haroon,
you are real work.
You may have to do a lot of primary
tuning.
What and what?
What Haroon is talking about?
What is a parameter tuning is for each
function.
This threshold is called.
Remember we have different true positive
rate and false positive rate.
Those kind of numbers,
those kind of metrics associated with one
classification model and then the reason
I told you and I also told you guys we
are using .
5 as a threshold the threshold equal to .
5 is a parameter.
Of that model, what is the parameter?
A model is considered.
This is a function.
This is a. This is a machine, right?
So then you have some input and the
machine gonna generate some output.
What I am showing you is sort of like I
receive an iPhone from Apple, right?
I just wanna start using the iPhone.
I just use everything.
All default values that's set by Apple,
not like me.
So then I give me pretty good use user
experience.
What Haroon is, is is talking about is,
you know what?
I want you.
I want to use my iPhone for.
I want to use my iPhone for communication.
I want to use my iPhone for stock trading.
I want to use my iPhone for different for
different purposes.
So then you need to change your iPhone.
You need to go to the setting.
You need to go to.
Setting general to change your iPhone in
a way that maximize your benefit.
So the The thing is you are changing on
your iPhone. In general,
those are sort of the parameters.
Because you're tailoring the iPhone for
your own purposes now.
Make sense to you?
May not make sense for me or other people,
but it's definitely maximize your benefit.
So that is called and that is sort of how
you change those.
Those values in in a general setting of
iPhone is called a parameter tuning.
And and and and there are so many
techniques about, you know,
the great search parameter tuning.
Meaning that.
You know the way how you feel,
the most comfortable to use a iPhone.
Then that's something that is a number,
assuming you have the number,
you know that's a number you want iPhone
to maximize or minimize,
and then you give iPhone.
A task.
An iPhone.
Pretty smart,
and it can learn and change itself to
meet your your to to address.
To to to meet your criteria of success,
so that eventually going to be your
iPhone only for you.
So that's called the parameter tuning
that's called.
There are so many techniques around the
correct tuning, I doubt if that could be.
Going to be some content material that in
this class,
but if you're taking any machine learning
or data science specific computer science
or data science major kind of class,
they will definitely talk about that.
But with that being said,
that could be a really cool project you
guys work on for the final.
If you want to work on some proper tuning
and then explore different parameters
that could be really good topic.
So Harron did,
did that answer your question?
Do you want to add some content on that
and then any suggestion? Any feedback?
I had a quote specific question.
So when we do scaling,
could you the scaling code the line of
Yes. Yeah.
code where we says like scaling or
standardization?
Could we just specify 1 variable to have
twice X much more weight compared to
others?
I I think you can use the weight function
to do that.
There is a there is a there is a weight
function that you can define.
All right.
You want to put more weight on that and
then you can definitely talk offline.
I I think this is some question we can
discuss on coding and I'm not sure the
other folks are still sort of interested
in that in that question.
Can we can we talk about that offline?
Yep.
OK, perfect.
Linear regression. Even if I have this,
I didn't do want to show you that.
In case you want to run.
Logistic regression on on Excel.
Here's the data I can show you.
And then I don't recommend,
but there's a way that you can do it.
So I copy the data here.
The column Zero is a long status as you
can see there is only two user and one.
You can ignore blanks.
And then there are so many columns or I
just copy paste from the data that you
know as a feature.
And I I say I I said target for myself.
OK, you know what?
I'm I'm going to use.
I'm going to use progressions and I do
not want to use any of those.
The reason is.
Excel cannot handle more than a specific
number of columns.
So if your data has let's say 20 columns
and then you cannot use all 20 columns as
a regressors either for logistic
regression or or or or regular regression.
You cannot have.
You cannot use so many number of columns
unfortunately.
So I have to delete them and then I run.
I run.
The model is now working as well,
so then I decide only to use three of
them.
The age,
the the income and whether or not they
default.
So you the way how you do it,
it just basically gives default values.
Let me just copy those values here.
You give some default values. To do that,
there's some preparation you you need to
do.
Is one is called legit?
It's based upon your default value.
You just your your.
This is going to be your or your
intercept.
Constant intercept.
Your age. Multiply the age parameter,
age coefficient, the income multiply,
and then let me just hide.
You know what?
Let me just hide in those columns.
No, I'm not going to use.
Make it easier to see.
OK, this legit column.
Is your constant intercept column value
initial value.
You can just put whatever value here plus.
Every single row your age multiply the
age coefficient plus income multiplied
income coefficient plus.
Default zero and one multiply this
default zero and one coefficient.
You have this number.
The column V is going to be the
exponential of this number.
The exponential of this number and then
you calculate the probability in a way.
Here's a formula and I can prove the
formula is basically a sensitivity.
Numbers and you just calculate in a way,
say it's one or zero.
Based upon this long status and you have
the formula I can share with you this
this excel and you calculate the logistic
natural log of this number.
Of this probability you have this log
likelihood.
I have more than 1000 rows and then
eventually I have this one on the 1000.
1st Row is a summation of the likelihood,
so that is the summation of all the
values in this likelihood likelihood
column.
I have this so you once you have this
this framework setup.
On your excel, OK,
you only focus on three columns and you
have the initial value of the coefficient
of those those columns plus a constant
intercept.
What you need to do is you go to the data
and you need to use a function of Excel
called solver.
In case you do not have the solver
available on your Excel,
you can go to home.
You can use I believe as a property or
something.
These are our friends.
I I honestly forgot.
How do I turn it out?
I mean, it could be provisions.
OK, anyways.
I I I'll look it up for for you just
later.
Wait, how am I close that? OK,
so in the data you have this solver.
There is it this.
Yeah. So you click this analytics tool,
the solver add on at the end was not
checked, and then you check it,
you click OK you have this solver here.
To click the solver.
The number you want to as your object is
not a summation of your likelihood.
The number here on your.
On your 1000.
Second or first roll,
that's the number you want to use to
maximize.
By changing what are you change?
What are you trying to use?
Or or or changing.
Are those parameters you you gave some
initial values?
You want to change those values and you
gave some initial values in the bottom
line.
Maximize the objective and you click
maximize.
And then you can just say make
unconstrained variable non negative.
You can do that and then you choose the
GRG nonlinear as as your model as a as a
solving method.
You click soft.
And you can keep the solver solution.
And that.
Are those are going to be your
coefficient associated with a logistic
regression you build on Excel.
How accurate are they?
Not as accurate compared to Python.
If I have to make a comment,
but if you have to quickly build some
logistic regression through using your
Excel, this is the way.
OK. And I'll upload to T2L,
you guys can play around with and then
please do not use so many variables.
Excel is not good enough to handle like
many variables in in this regression.
Not so great.
Not proud of it so.
Running logistic through Python or
different programming languages still the
best choice that you can have to have a
more accurate results.
Just want to show that Excel can do it OK.
I think that's is sort of like what we
want to cover the classification models.
So several examples,
and then hopefully you gonna enjoy it and
then we can take a 10 minute break.
The reason 10 versus 15 is remember last
time we we we finished already.
So then I still owe you guys 5 minutes.
So then let's do 10 minute break.
So we come back at 7:10, we continue to.
Nonlinear model, called Kenyan.
Any questions before we we take a break?
Any questions?
Haroon,
if you want to take a use of the break to
to talk about that question, totally fine.
But any other folks?
Any other questions?
OK, perfect.
So I'll see you guys around 7:10.
Take a break.
We will come back at 7:10.
Hey Haroon, are you?
Do you wanna talk this problem now or or
in the office hour after you?
I'll come to the office hour tomorrow.
OK, OK to come in. Staff is our tomorrow,
OK?
Sounds good.
So you have some code.
So then we can discuss.
Yep,
I'll bring a copy of a code I'm working
on currently for a different class.
OK. I yeah, we have to use online.
Unfortunately, Harun, the reason I don't.
I really do not have an office in in
markets.
No worries.
Thank you.
But by the way,
did I read your name correctly, Haroon?
Yep, that's correct.
OK, perfect.
I'll see you in a office hour.
I'll set up office hour and send you guys
an invite, OK?
Thank you.
Yep, I'll see you in 10 minutes.
OK.
All right. Bye. My watch 711 now.
Let's talk about this.
So we.
We were basically covering right now all
the other linear models.
So for example,
a linear regression model and then I I
will consider logistic regression as a
linear model.
The reason is that you you pretty much
just apply a transform function to the
data and then and then eventually.
You're still using a linear regression
between the variables against the
transformed data,
so so that's why I'm still saying this
linear regression model.
Let me just share my screen.
Right. So then.
However,
right so then the the linear regression
model versus the the real world data.
So there's a quite different.
There are so many nonlinear relationship
between the variables.
That the linear regression isn't really.
Good enough to to explain these complex
world. For example, the stock return,
we talk about the the.
The Eugen Farmam and French model.
Either the the,
the Cam model or three factor model or
five factor model they are.
Try trying to use those.
Momentum information to explain the the
returns and as you can see and then we
will tested the using MVDR Tesla stock
return daily return data.
We we we know that accuracy isn't high.
So then I I I don't think anyone is
really using those fact factor model or
three factor model to to make their
investment decision. I don't think so.
I think they can just use that as a
benchmark, right?
So then it can definitely explain some of
the variability of the the returns from
the target stock,
but it cannot fully reflect.
Those so you know when we purchase a
house and car, how you price those,
it is definitely not linear either, right?
So then.
You know, considering house,
you have so many factors.
You know the location of the house.
And the size of the house.
And then the real real estate real estate
tax rate of the of the House, right?
So then the year of the House,
there's so many.
So many factors we need to consider in
the neighborhood of the House. A car,
right?
So then you want to consider the brand of
the car, the mileage of the car,
and different different factors.
So I those are really not linear.
And not to mention, there's option prize,
right?
So then if you guys learn from the the
classic finance model.
How you price the option is really you
have to use a binary tree, right?
And then you make the assumption that
there is no arbitrage between.
Your your call option put option versus.
Now you can use it by sell those stocks
and then there's some.
Low no risk investment you can.
You can create a similar situation as as
the as the option that you you do not
want to create any arbitrage.
And any upper trash possibility
associated with that option versus the
the simulated the case, right?
So then so that option prize is
definitely non linear either.
So the in the real world,
you you definitely there's a need of
nonlinear models.
So now, now from now on,
we gonna enter the entire world of a long
linear models.
So we we will talk about this km model,
the K nearest neighbor neighborhood model.
So that's the easiest nonlinear model.
And then last time we gonna touch base on
the tree model.
It's a pretty natural concept and then
everyone is using tree model everyday
pretty much.
But you know how we put those concept
into?
Into codes and then we we can actually
model anything with that model.
Is is a different story?
After the three model,
we will talk about neural network.
So then that's another concept,
because the neural network is also.
Nonlinear for sure.
You're you're contacting different
neurons together and then and then to to
mimic what's happening in real life?
So now to mention a large language models.
So it's based upon what information has
been given to the model and you're
predicting you're predicting the next
word.
And hopefully in the next word making
sense and that is connecting to the
previous word you you're mentioning and
that word is also, umm,
connecting to the meanings of the
previous words.
So then this so newer network becomes
building bricks for the large language
models.
So the models getting more and more
complex.
And and definitely all nonlinear models.
Right.
So then let's start with something simple
the the K nearest neighbor.
So it's a really simple model.
The method.
The idea is quite quite simple as well.
It's really like you have so many data
and then I can.
I can see I can visualize the data that
is definitely not following a linear
pattern.
So then what I'm doing is I I I define.
I I stand at the one point I define who
are my neighbors.
I can calculate averages of my neighbors
as a representative of the neighborhood.
Just sort of like you,
you're you're trying to learn.
You know the house price, right?
So then you you can take the sample of
one neighborhood and average them,
and then you can call it set really a
representative price of another
neighborhood and you go to another
neighborhood.
You, you, you, you use the public data.
You can sample different houses and and
calculate average.
So then you can.
A representative prize of that
neighborhood.
And then you collect more and more
average of a different neighborhood in
one area.
So then you average them and then you can
call another representative price of the
entire area.
So then this is sort of the average and
average kind of idea is basically the K
nearest neighborhood.
And and the K is. So for example using.
Still using that house price example.
In one neighborhood,
you can say you have a 10 houses.
In that neighborhood, you can.
You can calculate average alpha entire.
10 houses.
So in that case the K equal to 10.
Or or you just want to know you know,
the Milwaukee area,
Milwaukee area price and then buy
different district. And you can say OK,
let me just use can as 100.
So then I have.
I have a average price of one.
I have a average price in the
neighborhood of a market university and a
UWM and downtown Milwaukee.
So I have a different prices.
In that case,
The Cave is definitely more than 10.
It could be 100 and could be actually.
More than 100.
So then this is based upon your purpose,
right?
So then and how big your data is?
So then you define 10.
So they can.
The 10 is actually one parameter.
We just talk about so the can can be
really big and 10 and 10 can be really
small and can be big as.
You know the sample size and then you
have only one number and they can be half
of a sample size and you actually have a
2 number.
One is 1 representing,
you know the high values of, for example,
the houses another one is representing
the the the lower half of the houses in
your sample. In your sample pool.
So so K is a parameter.
That now we can experiment different case.
It's quite simple.
It's quite intuitive, right?
So then you you actually can.
You don't have to make any assumption of
the data is following the normal
distribution.
Data is following whatever distribution.
It doesn't really matter because the
purpose of this model is not analyzing
the the distribution of your data.
It's easy relevant.
And any data is sometime working
perfectly with a nonlinear relationships.
So those are really the pros of this K
nearest neighbor model.
However,
as you can imagine that you have to.
Give a,
give a initial value of K as a starting
point.
Where you know,
sometimes you have no idea what the
proper K say.
Your you're you're asked to calculate
average price of Milwaukee and and that K
could be as big as you know a million.
It could be as small as 10.
But if you chose to use 10.
You know, you know the number of a house,
you know,
household here in Milwaukee and divide by
the your sample.
And then you have to calculate so many
numbers and then it could be
computationally expensive.
For Milwaukee and then you use that
number K at K equals to 10 to calculate,
you know,
Chicago or San Francisco and and and you
you definitely need to calculate you know
10 times more so then you you are you are
you are spending a lot of effort.
On that and then it could be really
expensive. Mean for large data set.
Uh,
and and definitely we will show you that.
Umm,
sometimes you choose a bigger bigger K or
smaller K.
You you're introducing a lot of bias to
your result and then not necessarily
bigger K or smaller K are are are good.
But the question being what K?
Should I even be choosing?
Unfortunately for this K and a model.
We were.
We were talking about science.
Now you know you.
We've tried to quantify a lot of pros and
cons and a lot of a model and how model
is is using to group the data and the
model data and choosing the K is really
the art piece of the scientific approach.
You have to tell what is the best K for
you, unfortunately.
So that's why you know,
not a lot of people really like this
K&
N model because sometimes it could be
easily.
Overfeeding your data and then give you a
really high accurate model,
but you know out of sample it may not be
great just because someone choose to use
a very smaller K the the K model can
explain a lot of nonlinear relationships
and it's actually a starting point.
Of the tree model and then people learn a
lot a ton from the K NN.
That's why people wanted the tree model
based upon it,
not necessarily based upon it, but.
They learn a lot of things.
But the drawback of the con of this one
is is is totally obvious that you can
easily over fit it and then the K is.
Is based upon a person's guess.
Like my preferred, your preference.
So that's that's that's that's the cause
of these KN model.
OK.
So we will.
We will use data to demonstrate.
These this model.
So now we we, we do have this used car.
Prediction data set.
OK so then as I mentioned.
Predicting the use of car pricing will be
nonlinear first of all,
so in this data set we have so many
important.
Factors that could affect the the user
car.
The brand, the model for example,
like the brand could be really Toyota and
the model could be a camera or or Tesla
Model 3 and the model year and then which
in which year that model was introduced.
Now suppose the car was introduced in the
market as a new car. A mileage.
So how?
How high?
The mileage the car is really on the the
previous owner is running on his car.
The fuel type,
this gasoline and the diesel is electric
or hybruary.
Uh.
A different engine types and transmission.
The color of the car or any accident
history and the clean title price.
Well, for this K nm model,
we are not going to use all of those.
All of those features.
To to model the car, the used car price,
we are only going to use of one feature
and then just to be really convenient we
are going to give you the one numerical
feature.
So we're gonna use a mileage as as a as a
feature to to model the the relationship
between the mileage and the price, right?
So intuitively.
How if I just eliminate all the factors,
only mileage enterprise and then then the
what's your expectation of how this
mileage affecting price?
Probably effects it a lot.
Yeah, it drives a lot.
And then you you expect in that price
will be lower, right?
So so if that's the case,
can we try to use what we have already
learned its class to model this mileage
versus price relationship?
I guess the question the answer is yes.
So let me let's try.
Let's see the data,
and then let's try to use a linear
regression model.
This is something we learned and
hopefully it works.
But you know,
since I'm introducing nonlinear model and
you know it's definitely not working,
but let's see why isn't.
The linear regression model working right?
So then let's see that.
Uh,
let me just contact who is umm call space.
Use the car.
So I download this data set user car from
cargo and then I'm loading this.
So you see the model, you see the brand,
you see the model year,
you see the fuel time, you see the engine.
There are so many information out here,
right?
So then later on,
once we learn tree model or different
model.
So we hopefully we eventually gonna use
all the features that support enterprise,
but this time we just useer mileage.
And you definitely need to do a lot of
things that are called data cleansing.
Using this data.
As you can see,
while I'm loading this data,
it's definitely not umm workable for any
model we're gonna run based on how the
data first of all, uh,
you can see you use this D type function.
You can see the type of those features.
Object, meaning they're not even a number,
meaning meaning the data is considering
those as uh as strings as letters,
as as as characteristics.
Features.
For brand, it definitely makes sense,
but for mileage I mean you want to use
them as numerical.
So then, however, the number they input.
In these columns are 51 comma, 000 space.
Mi dot so mi means miles, right?
So then you need to.
Extract this number from this value.
So this is something you need to do.
As for the data cleansing piece.
And also since we are using use mileage
and then you need to change the spelling
of this column,
I don't this MILAG is right.
Hopefully you know I I I look up the
dictionaries and feel like MILEAGE.
So then let's use that and those are the
price.
You may consider this as you know the
actual price,
but you know this is actually another
string.
So then the model does not like the
dollar sign and also the comma in those
in those numbers.
So then you need to extract the number
from this actual price.
So so this is a piece of the data
cleansing. Now we need to do so.
We are going to extract my leg mileage
numbers and the price numbers from the
original column, so this.
Str is tracked, so that's how we use it.
And then also we are explaining.
We are replacing those common with with
nothing.
So now you just get rid of those comma in
those numbers and then eventually we
convert that those extracted numbers into
a float.
Float means the float numbers not whole
number,
so we're allowing some partial of a
dollar.
So then we're doing that and then?
I did see some anomalies.
For like.
For cars.
Bigger than 300,000 miles, or Harbi,
or like 250,000 miles.
So now I just get rid of those anomalies
or any cars that with the price less than
0.
Or or the mileage.
Uh less than 0.
I don't know.
Those are, uh, realistic examples.
And then I just got rid of those
anomalies.
And then after after this anomaly removal
and then I still have, uh,
3966 year olds and and after changing
those columns I currently have the
mileage number which is a number and the
price.
Number is just also number that you know.
Our model will will prefer those numbers.
And then as you can see from this one,
you can directly see compare this 51,
000 is a 51,000 miles, OK.
We extract the correct number and then
this is $10,300 and this 10,
300 as a number.
So then we just extract those numbers
correctly, OK.
Let's just sketch.
Sketch our plot and then as you can see,
this is how the prize mileages are
working together.
The X axis is the mileage and the Y axis
is the price.
So I didn't get rid of those used cars.
That was $300,000 with a minimum mileage.
I have no idea what those cars are.
And then you guys can dig more if you're
interested in that. But you know from.
From this graph,
it feels like it's not linear.
The reason it feels like is is the
relationship is like this like like a
like a log function.
Or or or exponential function per
southeast.
It's definitely not like linear function.
So the question for you guys right now,
right?
So then if.
If I do want to fit this data.
Into a linear regression model.
What's your prediction of how that linear
regression will perform and why is bad?
We know it. It won't.
It won't be a great model,
but but the question is before you you
try what's your prediction of of how that
linear regression model will perform and
why it's bad and this is a chart.
I would say the model wouldn't.
Wouldn't be as accurate as we like it to
be because you see prices after 150,000.
There is a lot of outliers there.
Hmm.
There's a bunch of data set between zero
and hundred close to 100,000,
along with on the mileage end.
You you get you have more data points
between 0 and.
150,000 and the rest I would say what?
Make the model less accurate.
Yeah,
the model is definitely less accurate,
right?
So then that's totally and that's totally
true.
And and and.
The question is right so.
So that you know part of a linear model,
right?
So then you need to have.
You sort of have two points.
On this chart on on this plane,
you can just sort of like draw a line.
That's how the linear model works, right?
So then.
Let me.
Take a picture of.
It OK, I took the picture of it.
A picture of it.
Let's go to the slide.
Yep.
I love this.
Paste the picture.
Right. So then this is our data.
We can easily find a line here on Excel.
I'll just change the color of the color
color of it to be red.
And then change the way to be this OK,
boom, here we go.
The issue of this linear regression model
is we need to have a starting point and
then we do see, right?
So then the Intersect to the Y axis,
we do see there's a lot of data here.
Where do we put?
This point do we put the point here or do
we put the point here?
How do you feel comfortable to put this
starting point of this line to this Y
axis?
Or just choose somewhere,
let's say to choose in here.
And looks good.
And then we we change this point,
let's say we do it here.
Boom. We have the fit of this model.
It's not terrible.
But what's the issue of this fit?
You can explain a lot of between the
mileage and enterprise, right?
So then this is not bad.
I understand. Haroon.
You're saying that's not accurate because
in.
Higher region here.
Entire region here. Unexplained.
But let's pretend we you know,
if you do some way you you use some way
to to get rid of those anomalies.
It looks OK, right?
It looks OK.
Let me just download the end of the bit.
It looks OK, not too bad.
And is there any issue associated with
this fit?
The the ones you blocked off aren't
anomalies.
Yeah, that, that's that's what I said.
Let's just get rid of.
That's to pretend we get rid of those
anomalies.
Let's to pretend that we only have the
data here.
We only have the data below this big
black box, right?
So then let's say we only have the data
under under this blue box.
Was this a good fit for you?
Does it still look like a nonlinear model
for you?
Or or. You know,
since we have a bunch of data in it,
sort of like concentrated around this
area.
So then we just put this line here and
then boom.
Can do this.
And and then why is this model bad?
I would say that.
The maximum price it's gonna predict is
just over 50,000,
and clearly there's a lot of data above
that. Even as you get up to 100,000 miles.
Mm hmm.
Yeah. So, you know in reality.
In reality,
you wouldn't see this line being feed
like this way because the majority of the
data in here and then you you can judge
from the color.
So then you will eventually have the fit.
Looks like this somewhat like this OK.
So then,
because there are so many numbers here,
so then you want to minimize the distance
between those numbers,
those thoughts versus your fit in line.
So then,
so then you wouldn't have that line?
So you have this line here.
If you have this line as your model.
Penn is irrational.
Bad thing will happen to your model.
OK.
Let me just extend this line a little bit
and then you see my point.
So if you extend this line. OK,
so for any any data,
any mileage between the zero and here.
You sort of have a predicted price.
And what about any mileage beyond this
point on your X axis?
You have a negative value.
Of your used car price.
That is.
The issue of this linear regression model.
Honestly.
Because you wouldn't offer like an active
value.
Is there any like,
dealers offers like an active via meaning
like they're paying the customer to pick
up their used cars?
I hope not.
I didn't. I I do not know any.
So the issue of this data is the data is
concentrated in this area and then you
fit a linear model.
You have situations like this.
I did do that and then I filled a linear
model.
This is how the linear model look like.
I'll, I'll show you. I'm not lying.
I did try a linear regression model and
the model is showing OK,
so this is going to be my model.
Honestly, with all those anomalies,
just take a look at the data under 100,
000.
Before this, this line becomes negative.
It looks great.
Honestly, it looks great. Great, great,
great fit, but just, you know,
beyond that you, your,
your this model going to give you an
active value.
And then you can do something like fill
in an average here so that you manually
make it.
Nonlinear. That's something you can do,
but just saying this is linear regression
line is not working for this one.
For example, this is.
This is the model equation.
It's really $0.
40 mult by your mileage and plus $66,000.
This is how the model is predicting your
used car.
Use the car price so you have to sort of
like you have your car running a A10
thousand, 10,000 miles,
so then you're subtracting $4000 from the
66,000 initial price.
So then that'll be 62,
000 depending on What Car you have.
It's not.
It's not bad, but.
If there's a mileage is really let's say.
200,
000 and then that core is become the that
core is become negative.
The price of that core has become
negative.
So then that's that's why it's a terrible
model and not to mention to consider
those points.
But I agree with you that those point
works more likely as as anomalies than
actual point.
And I believe the the other features,
for example brand.
Or models could be explaining those
anomalies.
So that's why different tree models could
be more advanced than this KNN.
Just use a mileage.
Those are pure anomalies.
So let's try the KNN.
So what does KNN do is?
Just using this as an example is a pure
point.
So then, so then for every single point,
you'll find the neighboring.
10 points and then your calculating the
average amount that neighborhood of 10
points.
That's just purely how the KNA is
calculated and for this class we we start
with K equal K equal to 10.
Let's try that and how you actually train
this KNN model is you can just basically
call this.
This KNN regressor from SK learn.
Library.
So then you you can just definitely use
this.
So for this one.
I chose to use 10 neighbors.
And then I just want to use 10 neighbors
and then run keep calculating the average
of of 10 neighbors and then I'll see how
that works.
But whether or not that works better than
my linear regression model,
so then I just plot it on the same data.
So then this is how.
This can model eventually look like you
can.
Zoom in. You can have more up and downs,
right?
So more up and downs, but it's how.
It is between different mileages.
So basically just for each mileage.
So you just pick like 10 values and
calculate the average and then that's how
you got this curve.
Do you think this curve is better than?
Than than a linear regression model.
Yeah.
Because it's not.
It won't give you a negative price value.
They won't give you an active ID or.
And as you can see, we yeah,
we believe those are anomalies and I
believe those anomalies affected those.
Values a lot and and at this point so not
just because on this vertical line there
are some high values affecting this,
this one but.
Actually, you know,
at least there is no negative values when
your mileage becomes much bigger.
I try I I did a test.
So I chose OK.
Let me just rerun everything.
So then I actually run the code.
So I try OK.
What about my example? Is is 100,
000 miles?
So then 100,000 miles a linear prediction,
the linear model gonna give me. OK,
so the the car is 26,
000 and the KNN is it's is a 17,000. OK.
I I will feel like if I will buy a car I
will I will trust the.
Knn because it's lower price.
But I definitely wouldn't pay like 26,
000 on the car that is 100,000 miles.
I guess so. I I feel is more accurate.
And this is the way that.
The actual data and how the the nearest
neighbors were were selected.
Hopefully I can just enlarge it a little
bit.
So for example, for that 50,000 miles.
This is how the model is selecting the
the neighbors.
For that, 50,
000 miles knows how the model selecting
those.
So then the model is selecting those
points and calculated a calculated
average.
So that's how this.
$32,
000 is calculated right and linear
regression model is basically putting
this number to another three line to give
you this 46,000.
In my opinion,
this is sort of like how you buy a car
and then you're saying, hey,
I'm gonna buy a car,
for example in makwan and then with some
size and then you're really pick some
samples in and with a similar size and
then how you Cal.
Average of that, that, that, that House.
And that is giving you.
That sort of a mimic of how KNN is
working and and and and I think this is
making more sense than a linear
regression considering is not really
linear.
So this is basically a chart giving you
the details of how the K is calculating
this number.
Let me change it to.
This 10,100 thousand right?
So it's picking more numbers.
I don't know, no.
OK.
Oh, sorry. I think it's time.
Was it picking more numbers than I
thought it would be? OK.
I guess I need to change the codes.
Because I'm definitely marking more.
OK.
This is definitely not right,
but this is right.
But the point is right.
So now I need to change the calls.
Sorry about that. Move back to.
Where does the K come?
OK, I need to change somewhere here. OK,
so sorry about that.
I'll change the calls.
This is not accurate.
I'll change the calls and upload to the.
Ah.
To the other D2L.
But the question is so you can change
different case, right? So then?
Change it back.
On that.
OK.
It's not coming back, OK?
That's fine.
So let's go back to this curve.
So this curve is so that you're using K
to 10.
So question is yes K equal to 10.
We have this curve like this and then I
want to know should I change this K to be
a bigger number?
Should I change the K to be a smaller
number?
So I did try this.
So I tried K equals.
To two and five and 10110 a thousand 2000.
So K equal to two.
It looks like this K equal to 5.
It looks like this K equal to 10 like
this K equal to 1000 would like this
curve and K equal to 2000 like this curve.
What can you guys observe from the
different case?
And honestly,
I think I think I have those chart in my
slides.
So those are different case 2 and 10102
thousand.
So what can you observe from this red
regression?
Fit based upon different K.
What can you tell?
Any thought?
It looks like the higher K value you use,
the tighter the dispersion gets.
Excuse me.
Yeah, or another one.
Do you think that is smoother than this?
Yeah,
that's essentially what I was trying to
say.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So definitely looks like a curve.
And this one looks like up or down like
stock price.
But why is that?
I agree with you.
You know what I mean?
I agree with you.
So then lower K you have a lot of up or
down,
but the hurricane is getting more and
more smoother.
So then why is that?
And and maybe that that means you change
that,
change the question if I choose to use,
if I change the K to be all the points
that you have,
what is that curve gonna look like?
This can be a line like the average.
Use all the points that'll be.
Umm.
I'll be a line like this.
And what about if I use half of the K?
What does that line look like?
Sorry,
let me use 1/2 of the all of the of the
data that I have, the K equal to.
Let's say I have 4000 data points.
The K equal to 2000.
How?
I mean the series of 2000 that will not
look like that but but you know,
you know what I mean?
So let's say the day that the sample size
is 10,
000 and then I choose to use K equal to
5000.
How does that curve and then look like?
I think hopefully they gonna look like.
I don't need icons.
Hopefully not gonna look like. Oh hell,
I have entire half of the data set here.
And.
And I have some data set here,
so then those are the averages, right?
So then I just have A to sort of.
Connecting them looks like a smoother
version of this, so that'll be my.
That'll be my curve,
so look closer like this one.
So that's why you have a higher K.
You are using the majority data to
compute 1 number or two or or small
amount of numbers.
That's why it looks smoother.
But what about?
I I then put another ring.
What about if I use K to one?
How does that curve gonna look like?
What does that?
What does K equal to 1 means?
OK.
Q1 it means like every single point is in
its neighbourhood.
So then you're pretty much going to
calculate the average across all the
points.
So now be more volatile than this. OK too.
They're going to be up and down.
Down down, because every single point is,
is its neighborhood.
So what we can summarize is the lower K,
the more volatility the higher K.
The more smoothness around those curves.
But, but that's not our goal, right?
Because our goal is not seeing like
visualize a curve and then the fits,
our goal is which model give us a better
results.
The very better result mean like we can
we can have a closer gas of of the user
car price.
So then how to choose the best game?
Remember that we we we were talking about
the linear regression we talked about.
You know,
there's something that called accuracy.
We need to use accuracy.
So then, so then let me just this,
we need to quantify the performance of
each model whatever KK you do, 1234.
So then so then we are we are saying hey
that's let's use these RMSE.
So RMSE is the actual value.
The difference between your actual value
and your prediction value and the square
it and sum it up and take the average.
So that's a square root.
Of a mean squared error so then.
We just use this one to quantify them the
model performance.
The good thing of this RMSE is that you
know you want to minimize it because when
your prediction is getting closer to your
your actual value.
This this number.
This difference becomes more and more
close to 0.
So then the square.
Is if if this number is a big between
zero and one,
the square is going to make this number
even smaller.
So then you hope you have these RMS as
small as possible.
So then you you want to minimize this,
but this one can be a value to to
quantify your performance of the models
and then you can use this value to
compare different models.
So then let's see.
Let's see what we can say is.
When K decreases,
this is what I try I try.
I start from 1000 K equal to 1000.
And two K equal to two.
My Mr.
Massey RMSE start from this level and.
Consistently going down and you drop
significantly to some really low level
number.
And why is this?
I mean, is this as expected?
The reason is.
We know that. See here.
From the extreme.
We know if we choose to use K equal to
entire sample size,
meaning we only have one value.
We're really compare entire data set
versus 1 number.
That could be a really bad prediction.
Really bad prediction.
At least if we use half of the,
you know sample size and then we have two
numbers,
two related number that we have entire
data set to compare against.
That makes more sense because at least
I'm compare half the data versus its
average and then the other half.
Data versus another average.
So it definitely gonna be better than the
average.
Of entire entire sample pool.
So then having.
Who values or have you have of the sample
size as the K is definitely improving the
accuracy,
meaning reducing the error or or RMSE so
that if you keep pushing that right you
keep pushing that if you K equal to 1.
My prediction of those numbers going to
be that number,
I don't even borrow another information
to calculate average.
So then it's definitely closer and closer
to my actual value.
So that certainly can explain why.
This RMSE is consistently decreasing as K
decreases and and drop significantly once
these K are getting closer to 0.
My question is,
is there any potential issue?
The potential issue is I do include a
keyword here train MSRMSE.
So the potential issue is the following.
I did try to train RMSE and the
validation RMSE.
The train RMSE is.
I build a KN model based upon the K the
train data.
This is a chart I show you in the
previous slide. As a decreases,
my error decreases consistently.
However.
If I apply the model based upon the
training data.
To the validation data and by the way,
when I train the model,
the model didn't see any single point in
this validation data set.
So the validation data set is a stranger
to the model.
I apply the model based upon the train to
the validation.
It decrease a little bit following the
train.
The gap is getting narrower, narrower.
And start increasing.
So the validation error is increasing to
the top.
Once the K decreases and also the train
RMSE decreases.
What does this chart tell you?
And and maybe let me just ask question,
do you still think K equal to two?
Which?
Minimize the train RMSE and maximize the
validation.
Rmse is a good K We should be choosing.
No.
The the answer is absolutely correct.
OK.
It's not the case.
We should be choosing and why choosing
not K.
We have so small RMSE error associated
with train data and so big error
associated with validation data.
Should we pick where they intersect?
Or we can definitely do that.
I mean that's that's that's the the
concept is why K equals to two is so bad
and causing this divergent.
Yeah, I mean,
because they're different data points and
at that point they're they're not really
showing the fit.
Yeah. So so there.
There's a word associated with this and
what is that word, Matt?
Not correlated or.
OK.
No word is overfitting.
I over fit in.
Overfitting. OK, so this is a typical.
Yeah.
Typical phenomena of we are overfitting
the data. OK, so once the overfitting.
So there are some classic examples in
finance that people like to overfit their
data for example.
You know when you predict a a stock
return.
You want to use all the data you collect
about that accorporate, right?
So then you want to know whether or not a
corporate operates in different countries,
and then you know there are components of
their and their their their revenue.
Different regions.
There are some classic examples that
people believe that.
If if the CEO of the company entered the
price release wearing some color of socks
and some color of, you know,
tie and then there would be a good reason
to predict that stock price higher.
However, if not,
you know if that CEO wearing, for example,
the green tie.
So that's a sort of like a bad sign,
do you think?
Those kind of factors that really explain
the stock price.
Color of Thai color of sauce,
color of suit.
Do you think those are the those are the
meaningful information predicting a
company's stock price?
But the answer is of course no.
But if you use you use those factors in
the model.
You may find that those information
explains your volatility.
Your your your higher low stock price in
history, extremely well extremely well.
You're adding more information.
You're adding more such information.
You feel so confident that you can
explain the historical price.
So well,
and you feel those are the information
can explain the future,
the future for that example is a
validation data set and the future gonna
tell you exactly what we're seeing here.
You have really low error associated with
your training.
You eventually have a biggest ever error
in your future because.
We are choosing or the analysts was
choosing some irrelevant information.
In the model training and in this very
example,
we believe every single point we want to
go as granular as possible to calculate
the averages and that is that is
definitely.
Gonna gonna cost this overfitting
problems and then you should be going
that far in my opinion. I think I I right.
Matt,
you can just choose across and that that
should be good because.
I'm not.
But you know the the the the cross has
some issue because there are some.
Fine before the validation is ready,
raising has error.
So then I'm not sure if you wanna choose
that,
so you may want to actually choosing the
one that minimized the validation error.
OK.
So this is something that you know quite
risky for using the KNN model.
So then people use this log of 1 / K to
to.
Sort of model complexity of the model and
then here is a chart of using the data
that we have.
So then once the complexity goes higher
and then big gap between the training and
the validation accuracy.
So there's definitely thing called a bias
variance tradeoff.
So,
so that sort of explanation or the theory
behind this chart,
although our chart does not look.
100% similar to the theoretical chart
where this theoretical chart we are
seeing that.
We're seeing similar things, right?
So the model complexity getting higher,
so the prediction error for train is
getting smaller and smaller always
consistently. However,
the task will eventually go high,
so that what we can see is the model
complexity, meaning the K being higher.
We definitely have a low variance.
It's because you can see the curves are
more and more smooth.
It's definitely smoother than the higher
the lower K,
but you definitely have a higher bias
because we are just basically predicting
average and then the bias is really high
when you move this complexity higher,
meaning you are adding you reducing this
K and make the model more and.
More complex.
Yes, the volatility is going to be really,
really high as we can see from the chart.
And and the bias will be low.
The issue is they will eventually the
task sample test error and the training
error will be eventually diverged.
So this is called bias,
where the trade off and then you need to
take care of this, OK.
And and as you can see the K equal to two.
I'm just using some sample data.
It's really, really high variance, really,
really high variance,
but the bias is relatively low because
from the training data,
another data there is covering a lot of
other data behind the scene.
But if you choose K = 20,
it's definitely higher bias.
There's a lot of grey pieces not covering.
For example this number.
I'm using this this model,
but definitely this model looks much
smoother than the K code 22 model.
So that's the sort that's is the the bias
variance or tradeoff what we are seeing
from models and then?
This is just the KNN.
Just a starter.
We have only one parameter to choose from.
We have only.
We have only need to only change the K
from the tree model from the neural
network model.
We have a number and sometimes that
number is really big of a parameters that
we can change.
So this is we can,
I will remind you that bias trade off all
the time to tell you that it's not only
focus on the train sample error,
you need to do either validation or test
error.
So that is a meaningful error you want to
have and then.
Keep in mind that the bias variance
tradeoff.
In KNN is so obvious.
Model, but for the trees,
since you have so many parameters,
is not as obvious,
but you will need to keep this concept in
your mind that you don't want to make the
model hyper complex because you make them
all hyper complex.
You're introducing high variance and then
low bias,
and however that may be overfeeding your
data and the tree model is.
So easy to overfit and and and and that's
why I'm just.
Introduce this concept, this reminder now,
then later.
So what's the way of sort of help us with
this trade off is?
You this is. I'm sorry.
This is a really good strategy.
You want to use.
Is you split the data into train and
validation and test.
You can do 5025 and 25.
You can do 6020 and 20.
You train a model based upon a train set.
You pass your model on validation.
Whenever you choose and then you choose
the code and call.
Pass the model based upon the validation
magic.
No matter what magic you choose to select,
the best model, say is RMSE.
Say it's accuracy, say it's EFF on score,
say whatever you based on that and then
you.
Run your model on test.
Just keep in your mind that you have to
do that. You choose a model on validation,
you run it on task, then just do it once.
And if you ever start using that task
data set to try a multiple number of
models and then and then.
Wait.
Did I just call you this?
No, hopefully not.
If you start using the task and tried so
many different models again,
again and again.
You are starting the task as a validation.
The task will not be become the task
anymore and that you are introducing bias
over there and you are introducing the
overfeeding in over there.
So a lot of people.
May make this mistake before.
From my from my career,
I've seen a really famous leading.
Consulting firm and then deliver their.
$20 million project to their client.
They stuck in delivering their model and
the reason is they were overfitting.
They were using their Tesla data as a
validation and keep adding regressors to
their model and keep making that code and.
In their mind, accuracy better and better,
and then the actual out of sample future
data,
their prediction is not as good at all
they have seen.
They have positive for that.
Their model training test data is getting
higher accuracy whenever they test the
model in the real line,
the accuracy is dropped.
It is declining,
so they they posit that for for for a
long time,
a lot of professional data scientists
make this mistake.
I just want you to know that.
Keep your mind.
This could be one mistake you will be
making, but if you make the mistake,
that's not a that's not a big issue.
Everyone makes mistakes,
so keep in mind someone some,
some person called Eric.
Tell you that.
There will be an issue like this,
so then you may need to change your
strategy and and and change your and
solve your solve your mistake and solve
your problem at the moment.
So just give me a remind.
Not a big deal.
And then and that's that's sort of it.
And then the cross validation,
you have several ways and then the K fold
is one way we will be using.
And and and and luckily,
unluckily in many Python packages,
the K fold is 1 parameter.
You can just always choose that and and
turn that on.
And then you, you you'll be covered.
So a lot of package already cover you
from that,
just in case you have to build your model
your own.
Keep your mind there is a there is a bias
variance tradeoff.
Any questions?
I I think today what I just introduced a
lot of things.
Hopefully is not super overwhelming.
All right. So if there is no question,
I'll send you the invite for to the
office hour tomorrow on Tuesday and on
Thursday, 4:30 to 5:30.
So that feel free to join with any
question.
I'll I'll have to join office hour online
and use teams.
If you have any question you can post
your question over there or send me an
e-mail.
I think that'll be it for today.
Thank you.
Thank you.
Yep, Yep. Bye.
Thank you.
Thanks.